Make 'make check' more consistent, and better documented, across all our projects (#1091)
packit/packit-service: CONTRIBUTING.md

## Reporting Bugs

- [List of known issues](https://github.com/packit/packit-service/issues); if you need to create a new issue, you can do so [here](https://github.com/packit/packit-service/issues/new).
- Getting a version of `packit`:<br>
  `rpm -q packit` or `pip3 freeze | grep packitos`

## Building images locally

For building images the SOURCE_BRANCH build arg is required. It allows selecting which branch should be
used during the automated build and test process, based on the deployment stage it was executed from.

> The Podman file build arg SOURCE_BRANCH is set to:

Reviewer: ```suggestion
In the Dockerfiles SOURCE_BRANCH is set to:
```

As there are 3 Dockerfiles in this repo, and there are called `Dockerfile*`, so there removing the "docker" terminology here would create confusion. The right term and name for these files would be "Containerfile".

Author: Made the suggested change.

used during the automated build and test process, based on the deployment stage it was executed from.

The Podman file build arg SOURCE_BRANCH is set to:

- SOURCE_BRANCH env variable, which is available in custom build process([docs](https://docs.docker
  .com/docker-hub/builds/advanced/))
- zuul.branch ansible variable, which is provided in zuul-ci environment. ([docs](- [scripts](scripts/) - devops scripts used in multiple repositories
  ))

When you are invoking 'make' manually, you must provide:

- variable SOURCE_BRANCH for make targets:

e.g.
`SOURCE_BRANCH=main`

- arg `--build-arg SOURCE_BRANCH=value` when using podman build

e.g.

    podman build --build-arg SOURCE_BRANCH=stable
    podman-compose build --build-arg SOURCE_BRANCH=stable

If SOURCE_BRANCH is empty build will fail.
If SOURCE_BRANCH is not empty and is not main or stable than main value will be used.

## Running packit-service locally

Since packit-service is already a fairly complex system, it's not trivial to
run it locally. This is why we run everything in containers.

This repository contains [docker-compose.yml](./docker-compose.yml) for

> [podman-compose](https://github.com/containers/podman-compose). Before you run it, we

Reviewer 2: Not sure this is a good idea.
We investigated `podman-compose` about a year ago in #703 and it was not a good replacement for `docker-compose` - and there have been no new [releases](https://pypi.org/project/podman-compose/#history) since then.
I've just tried the version packaged in F34 and see some errors, so if you want to play with that please do so in a separate PR. Thanks.

Author: Jiri,

Thanks for taking a look.  I think we could say that podman-vs.-docker issues are
somewhat outside the scope of making 'make check' more consistent, so I'm
putting the original text back.

### Running tests locally

You can run unit and integration tests locally in a container;

> make sure that you have the ansible and podman packages installed,

Reviewer: Is ansible relly required?

Author: I think ansible is only required by check-inside-openshift, check-inside-openshift-zuul,
and setup-inside-toolbox, so I've removed the mention from CONTRIBUTING.md.
